Libya, Egypt, Lebanon, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, India.
I guess I was there for about three and a half months looking at all of the problems.
Then I came back to Rome and I wrote the report.
It so happened that at that time Frank Parker, who was at that time was FAO, he was one of the real good old line agronomists, a tremendous man, originally with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture.
or even prior to that he was with the DuPont Chemical Company, rather briefly, then with the USDA.
And then he was with FAO, and he had a sort of a world conference on fertilizer and the needs for fertilizer in the third world.
So when I was writing this report, there was a couple day conference
And he invited me to talk to the whole gathering, which I did.
And I put a lot of emphasis on, we aren't going anyplace until we do something about soil fertility.
That he said it had to be soil fertility, but we had to have the varieties with disease resistance, we had to put the whole package together.
I turned in that report, which also, I put strong emphasis on this.
We will never be able to change the production of basic food crops in any measurable way in all of these countries until we train a lot of young scientists.
I pointed out that there were only two countries that had any appreciable number of well-trained people, and that was Egypt and India.
but that most of these people were involved in doing a continuation of their PhD dissertation or research program done at some European university, sometimes an American, but generally European, and that had no relevance whatsoever to the jobs that needed to be done.
To the local conditions.
We talked a little bit about this last time.
I suggested we bring that FAO through Abdul Hafiz, who was their regional representative based in Cairo, identify the best young people in all of those countries and that the Rockefeller Foundation put up monies to support the practical hands-on training and that they be sent to Mexico.
And when I was working as a consultant there,
also start training them because I still continued to work with the Mexican program.
I mean I was kind of like the old uncle and so I had no problems in working effectively with the Mexican team which I had trained.
And this became, in 61, this started to roll.
Originally we kept them for a year.
But then it was cut back, because there was a growing number of demands, cut back to six months.
We couldn't take care of them.
And that remains, I think, one of the most important vehicles we've had for preparing people, not just in plant breeding or plant pathology.
We tried to give them a feel for the whole thing.
They worked on the stations with me.
I had to do, in the early time, you see, there was no cement at that time.
It was an in-between thing.
I was paid out of the Rockefeller Foundation Fund that was called the program Inter-American Agricultural Research Program.
It didn't have any structure.
Wellhausen and I, and there were four or five of us who were left in this transfer responsibility based in Mexico.
Wellhausen was our corn breeder, Niederhauser our potato man.
There were about five.
And so during this period I got a good feel for
Previous to the closing of the Mexican program, we had established what we called an inter-American uniform wheat nursery, which was made up of the main wheat varieties, commercial ones, from Canada, the spring wheat regions of the U.S., Mexico, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Chile, Argentina, and Brazil.
And we had grown these for several years.
And it was there that we could see that these Mexican varieties that we had developed by the shuttle breeding were very broadly adapted.
Whereas the Canadian and the U.S., once you moved them beyond about 40 degrees, they couldn't function.
This explained also, of course, why we could never use them in any of the countries like Mexico or near the equator.
And why they didn't fit also many parts of India or Pakistan or Egypt or all of those areas, despite the fact that they had excellent disease resistance, good milling and baking quality.
But when these young people came, and we used to have informal seminars, and I'd work with them mostly in the field, right out in the plots.
and on farmer's fields.
It was not a formal training course at all, but when they saw these data, and they actually participated in growing these seeds for the next year's nurseries, putting the nursery together, making up the seed packages and randomizing the plots and shipping them, and
analyzing the data that had come back from the year before.
And they got all interested in this and they said, well, why can't we see from this that none of those things from Canada, the U.S., from Argentina will fit our situations, whereas yours will.
Why can't we forget about those?
And we established one, we'll call it Mexican Near Middle East,
I said, all right, if you want to do that, get a few seeds and we'll multiply them.
And so this became where we could actually see the adaptation across these countries.
Then after about two years of this, then we combined the two.
That's been running now for about 20 years.
So this has given us massive amounts, this International Spring Wheat Yield Nursery.
So this has been running out of Mexico ever since the early 1960s.
Yeah.
Cimet took it over when it came to be in about 19... Cimet came to be in 64 on paper, but it was really close to 68 before we got structured.
But it's become the Bible or the Koran for the plant breeders who want to use it intelligently to look ahead because these varieties,
are not only the commercial varieties we've modified it there are 25 of the well most important commercial varieties of spring wheat and we include canadian u.s because they're points of reference even though they don't fit in in low latitude still for certain parts of the world this is important where they fit and also it gives us a lot of insight into parental material that we'll use in
crossing and recombination.
So this has been going on now in this international vein for more than 20 years.
And about how many scientists did you bring in the early 60s and about how many today?
Okay.
In the early 60s, I was the training officer.
I was it.
And I had decided that with my other responsibilities I couldn't handle... And about how many students too?
Yes.
I couldn't handle more than seven.
because they came at that time with no Spanish, and I had, I used to have a blackboard out there, I'd take out the pickup every morning would sit out there, there are little pollinating stools, I think there's some pictures around somewhere of this, and for the first
I used to teach them Spanish, but Spanish, usable Spanish.
They had to communicate with the laborers and with the Mexican scientists.
And then all the rest of the day in the plots and in the laboratories, whatever was being done.
And then they would
go back to their own countries.
Well, this nursery has grown so that it's grown at about 150 locations at the present time around the world.
And it generates tremendous amount of data that come back and go through the computers in Simmon.
And there's a publication made each year and distributed worldwide.
And this, for those who know how to use it,
It gives a tremendous amount of data about where do we go from here?
How do we correct for this disease susceptibility?
What are the parental materials we should use?
It's kind of a Bible or a Koran for those who know how to use it.
And tell me now about the growth and how many students there were then versus how many there are now in the same staff.
About seven.
Seven.
Now, of course, the structure is entirely different because CIMIT has, at the present time,
In the two sections, that is the small grain training section, we have one, two, three full-time training officers.
And the same in MACE.
And each year... So you have about six then all together.
And about how many students?
About 115 in the two sections a year.
And the number is restricted to that because of lack of dormitory space.
Dormitory and cafeteria.
We've got the teaching and capabilities of handling twice that, but we've got this bottleneck.
So they come now for six months, and I think it's one of the good hands-on training programs.
Now, as these people went back from those early days,
We used to try to, and one of the responsibilities today of the training officers is to maintain contact with those people, to visit them at least once every year, and now more often because we have some outposted staff of our researchers.
So they're in regions, and so they're expected to visit them at least twice and sometimes more often.
And we have regional get-togethers.
where we bring them all back together as best we can.
And it's become a pretty important fraternity of weed scientists across disciplines, too.
We never tried to make specialists out of these people.
As a matter of fact, we tried to do just the opposite.
Because I had seen from the early years too many people who were trained
Let's say they wanted to be a geneticist and plant breeder when they got back, why, they had to be everything.
They had to be an agronomist and know something about soil.
They had to know something about entomology, and so we tried to give them a background in all of those things with a pretty down-to-earth production orientation.
And then we followed up on these students and we tried to identify those that were not swallowed up within their own environment.
In most of those countries, as you well know, the environment is miserable from the standpoint of doing research or, for that matter, teaching.
No funds, no transport.
No facilities, even envelopes very often for seed.
No notebooks.
It's just miserable.
At least it was then.
And it's improved considerably now, but it's still bad by our standards.
So you try to identify those that are still reasonably functional despite those handicaps.
And those are the ones that we used to battle to get fellowships for.
And at that period, the Rockefeller Foundation and Ford Foundation were rather generous in the numbers of fellowships that were given.
And so we would identify these.
They would come out to quite often American universities, Canadian sometimes, sometimes European.
And then when they would go back,
We found, and this was based on our experience in Mexico very often, if they had this practical training like we had given them several years before in Mexico, and then they got their degree, specialty, PhD.
When they went back, they knew what was important and what was of secondary and tertiary importance, the order of priorities.
They were able to sort out pretty well by themselves.
And that's why I think that the training pattern that we followed in Mexico in the early days back in the Rockefeller program was a good one because it gave us some insights into this, what happened to young people when they came back from foreign graduate schools.
If they went directly from undergraduate to a foreign graduate school and came back home with very few exceptions, they were worthless.
because they had received such a high degree of specialization.
They wouldn't find the place to apply it.
They would be disillusioned, frustrated, and it would represent a bad investment in education.
But they went out for a master's as they did in Mexico.
They came back and the good ones who had done a good job in graduate school at master's level came with us to help train other new ones just coming in.
And they stayed for two or three years more, and if they continued to show leadership ability as well as good scientific excellence, they went out for a doctorate.
And when they came back, they were mature scientists because they had probably had five years of experience, three before they went for a master's and then two between master's and doctorate.
And they never got confused by what was important.
They came back and they hit the deck and they were running.
And so we tried to
inject this into the people we were training in North Africa and near the Middle East also, so that they wouldn't end up like so many of both the Indians and the Egyptians who were theorists rather than hands-on people.
Now, you've sent out probably way over a thousand by now.
I've lost track exactly, but well over 2,000 young people coming through the Mexican program.
More than half have been wheat, probably
If I were to make a guess, there are at least 1,400 that have gone through the Mexican wheat program.
So they're scattered all around the world.
They aren't all working on wheat.
They're working on agriculture in the broadest of sense.
Exactly.
Now you have also done some follow-up and you keep in good contact with, maybe you not personally, but others keep in good contact.
How do you judge or how do you measure the impact that your trained scientists have had on their cultures?
Bernie Swanson, who came with our training program probably in about 66 or 67, he's now at the University of Illinois, and this is his career now.
He spent, I guess, I'm not sure, four or five years with us, four years, and he started following up on these people.
He helped structure in a more formal way
also by then we were generating a CIMIT staff and we got, Bernie was there and then we got another training officer and they started structuring this much better than I had done when I was alone and they maintained correspondence
And also, he's made one follow-up since then.
And the surprising, I don't remember how many years back this was, but maybe four or so.
He made a follow-up and amazing thing.
By 1980 he made a follow-up then?
Somewhere in there, 78 or 80.
80% of all of them were still in wheat in some way or another, of the ones that were in wheat.
Amazing, considering the miserable conditions there.
And Rob, who got his masters here last year in Ag Ed,
He did his three-month internship with us last summer.
He was following up mostly by correspondence, trying to see what had happened since then.
As a matter of fact, he's moved on to Illinois now and working on his doctorate there.
Did you ever meet him?
Tall, slim guy, came from Pennsylvania originally, went into the Peace Corps and then into
I guess he was in this twice.
In Nepal, the last time, then he worked collecting
parasites of wild animals for some German scientific organization for a couple of years.
He's had a fantastic background of experience.
He married a little Nepalese gal and he was in my class last year and he didn't have to do a three-month sort of in-service training, so he went down and did this and now he's working on his doctor.
Well, I've noticed
that with our system of education here in the U.S.
now, the early specialization and also drawing, we must remember that only 2% of the economically active workforce of the U.S.
population today is agricultural.
That means that many of our students have no feel for agriculture.
Even though they're registered in agriculture, they have no feel for the basics.
They were probably born in New York City, Brooklyn, and this handicaps them very greatly.
We have to get back to this question, though, of trained specialists and how, I mean, what did you find in about 1980?
what did they find when they went out and they asked these people?
I mean, have they had much of an impact on agriculture in their countries?
You said that 80% were still in wheat, which is fantastic, the retention rate, but what kind of impact?
Is there any way that you can measure that?
Is there?
Well, the way we try to measure it, what happened to wheat production in those countries?
In Turkey, for example, wheat production has doubled in the
last 10, 12 years, and they were an integral part of this.
Pakistan, there were 18 of them in those early years that went through, and this is triple.
Pakistan's lead production's tripled.
Since 1965.
India's is quadruple.
Now, India is one of the god-awfulest bureaucracies.
And it chokes them, but despite all of that, of course we had the late Dr. Glenn Anderson there to provide an umbrella and he was respected and he had their confidence and he was kind of the big uncle and he could talk pretty frank to them.
Just as in the early years, Narvaez, my first Mexican colleague, was in Pakistan for a shorter period of time, I think only three years.
But he too had tremendous impact.
Especially then you can protect these people and keep them going in the right direction.
Now in Egypt, we've trained a tremendous number there.
But Egypt is, since you pointed or asked this question,
I'm not sure which is worse, Egypt or India from the standpoint of bureaucracy.
They probably are on a par, which is bad.
The difference is in their agriculture, Egyptian yields were at a higher level than India's or Pakistan's when we started in those countries.
Those countries have advanced more yield-wise and production-wise.
But Egypt also has one thing that's an advantage and I dare say also a disadvantage.
Because of its relations with the USA, to get the political leaders to make a tough decision on agriculture is more difficult.
Would you explain that?
USAID has probably poured more aid into Egypt because of the position that it occupies with respect to the whole confused situation between Israel and the Arab countries than any other country in that entire region.
And so the political leaders know that if things get bad enough,
there will always be PL 480 grain.
That's a disincentive as far as I'm concerned.
Because before we could ever move production, after we had put the technological package together in India and Pakistan, and we had tested it the first year on dozens of farms and then hundreds, probably close to thousands, and
We could see it was viable.
The grass roots were a fire.
They could see the tremendous difference.
And we did this intentionally.
We weren't looking for the most economic part of that fertilizer response curve.
When those went out onto the hundreds and thousands of farms, simple plots, I wanted this to be something approaching the maximum.
I wasn't at the stage where I was interested in the equity of distribution of that fertilizer.
I wanted to provoke shock.
And although from research we had the curves, what the response increase in yield would be with 20, with 40, with 80, with 120, with 160 pounds of nitrogen and a low level of phosphate.
I wanted to play the one at 120.
And I had one of my most bitter fights with the economists in India, especially because they're very sophisticated there.
They started talking about equity.
You can't do this.
And I say, this is not the time to talk about equity.
This is the time to talk about shock.
And it was brutal, the discussion.
I finally won.
And we put them out there.
Can you explain this a little bit more?
Yes.
If you put 40 pounds of nitrogen on, you will get a modest increase, let's say, with the phosphate tube.
Then, as some of my good critics, including Paddock, said, even when it started to show on the national scale,
Those differences are because of climate.
It rained better this year.
A whole series of intangibles, and there was no real change in yield.
I anticipated all of this nonsense.
So I wanted not 40, not 80, 120, so that a blind man could see it.
The differences would be between 10 bushels an acre and 80 bushels.
And this was done.
And every place you had those plots, where somebody... This was done in Egypt?
No, this was done in India.
Oh, okay, in India, okay.
And Pakistan.
Oh yeah, okay.
And when you would drive out in a jeep to stop quick with your Indian or Pakistani friends to look at this, you probably only spent
planned to spend, because the treatments were simple, only a few of them, to spend eight, ten minutes.
By the time you started coming out of the plot, there were hundreds of people standing around because of the population density.
But the word would get around to the village that these people are here looking at this.
And those people had seen it before, it was obvious.
Somebody would grab you by the sleeve and, in Hindi, point down the road, meaning you're supposed to come down and see his.
But, of course, the people we were with, the extension people, we could only stop at a certain number.
But this created such a grassroots fire.
People knew what could be done then if the government made it possible for them to have those inputs.
When this was done, when you do this on an experiment station, I heard this in Mexico and I used to listen to them in Spanish, especially the uneducated little Indian farmer.
They'd say, well, but the government can do this because they got the fertilizer and we don't have any money.
We can't do this.
Besides, I could read between the lines and say,
We aren't so sure what's going on here on this experiment station, how much of this is improved technology and how much of this is hocus-pocus.
But when you do it on their own farms and the owners there, when you put in the test, it changes the whole thing.
He's the best extension man that you can ever find.
Quite often you tried to pick a village leader also, recognizing that that's a way to spread it.
And sometimes you didn't get the right person, but generally it was... Now can you relate this to Egypt?
In Egypt we never went through this in the same way, because we never had staff posted there.
We used to visit.
And we had some of the best young scientists there.
But we had limited number of staff.
And so we were sent to the worst places in those early years.
That was India and Pakistan at that time where the real problem areas, this was back in the early 60s.
Now, let me just finish on this other thing.
By the time you'd gone around, I don't know whether we talked about this or not.
This was in the spring of 66.
And we're back in Pakistan and India now?
Let's confine it to India.
Okay.
We had traveled for a month.
We got through the war.
Well, this was the year after that.
Okay.
When the seed didn't germinate and everything was bad and we doubled the seeding rates, you remember, and it turned out very well.
And then Mr. Subramaniam, who will be coming to this water conference, he was then the Secretary of Food and Agriculture, both.
he made a tough decision.
He imported 18,000 tons of Mexican wheat seed against the advice of his senior scientist.
And this that I've just been describing now was that set the stage for him importing this.
The next year then as we looked at this,
The enthusiasm was tremendous.
And I don't know whether I've mentioned this or not.
The last day before Swaminathan and Anderson and Kohli and I came back to Delhi after we'd been out for between four and five weeks looking at this all across the countryside in the spring of March of 66.
March of 67.
We got a telegram from the minister that we were supposed to stop at the Escort Tractor Factory, which is about 60 miles from Delhi.
This was the only factory making small tractors.
The reason we were invited to stop there, the Polish ambassador, the head of the company, was giving this luncheon in his honor.
It so happened that all of that tractor, except the transmission, was made in India.
The transmission came from Poland.
And so the ambassador was there and the whole Indian press was there.
Pretty elegant luncheon.
As we drove up a little late, the whole patio, the whole yard in front of the factory,
was filled with unsold little tractors.
So we went to the luncheon and the ambassador spoke and Mr. Nanda, N-A-N-D-A, the president of Escort, spoke.
Then he said, maybe Dr. Borlaug would like to say a few words and I figured there's the podium.
So I told him what we had seen and I said, Mr. Nanda, if the government does three things now,
All of those tractors you've got out here in the front patio will be sold and you won't be able to catch up with back orders for years to come.
If there's fertilizer available at reasonable price, credit for the farmer to pay for it, buy it and pay for it at harvest.
And if the government announces before planting a fair price for the grain at harvest based on the international market price, this is going to fly.
And I said, I wish now that I were a member of the Lak Saba.
The Lak Saba is the Chamber of Deputies.
I said, were I a member, I would stand up every 15 minutes irrespective of what was being discussed and scream in a loud voice what we need now is fertilizer.
There was a big hee-hawing around there, especially from the press.
It turned out the next morning we were in Delhi and went to see the minister and told him what we had seen.
He said, yeah, I saw the whole headlines on the press also.
And he says, I understand the cards you're playing.
He says, I believe you, but I can't help you anymore.
I'm out of office tomorrow night at midnight.
He lost his seat.
Then he sent me to the Prime Minister.
He played rough cards.
I think that's on the tape.
Those were the decisive things that made it fly.
The thing that set the stage was not in India, but was first in Pakistan, where they committed themselves to that three things.
That was done a year earlier than in India.
with President Liu, he said, that's the way it'll be.
And then you could use this.
You could say, I'm not above exploiting these things to move one country ahead while saying, look what so-and-so did, if it's for the improvement of the people.
And I used to say,
in India, your friends to the West have made this decision on fertilizer, on credit, and on price.
You're going to be left behind.
You have to be a bit of a psychologist in this also.
Because that's the way the world is organized.
You wouldn't wish it were so.
One would wish that those national borders
weren't there so that we would think as a people, but it isn't so.
I'm sorry I wandered around so much.
No, no, I wanted to... So Egypt, I must say, we never put a major push into Egypt, knowing full well that because of this prop, in times of need, we would never be able to exert pressures that we... In other words, USAID, because of USAID,
And I had one experience where I took our program out of the country because of similar things.
What was that?
Morocco, which needed it very badly.
Oh, can you explain that?
We started working in Morocco.
See, we didn't have much manpower, so we had to, in those early times, we'd just die and Glenn Anderson and a few people who work in India and Pakistan.
Then as we started acquiring a staff, we started to look where we could be effective.
And in North Africa, we started to work in Tunisia and Morocco.
But we soon backed off in Morocco because the U.S.
naval and air base was there.
And whenever I tried to exert pressures on economic policy,
USAID officer would say, oh, you can't do that.
I said, all right, then we won't play because we haven't scientific manpower to waste where we aren't going to try to get a result.
And if it's tied up in politics, better we use the limited manpower we have elsewhere.
So we left.
We were there about three years.
We had one good man there, two good men.
So that you've got to recognize— And airweed production has stayed about the same.
Now it's starting to pick up, but that's, let's see.
It could have picked up in the 70s.
Fifteen years, yes.
Of course, they hadn't done a decent job of training their people also.
Agriculture wasn't considered to be important by the king, and it had no priority, and they had a—
a very ineffective director of agricultural research who did good lip service but nothing else in support of research.
When you find a situation like that, rather than hit your head against the wall when there's so many other places with the limited resources, man, human resources and budget, that you need to work and then wait till the situation is right.
Morocco is starting to move now.
Now, by the late ... And Tunisia is moving pretty well now.
We don't have any people posted there, but we did for a while.
And of those North African countries, it's got the best agricultural program of the bunch.
Algeria, we worked in for a while.
Of course, it ...
had the most tangled up mess because of land ownership after the colons left, the French colons.
And they had no trained people.
When they got their independence, there were only 18 people with university degrees in the whole country, none of them in agriculture.
Let's move to the so-called Green Revolution.
Do you remember when you first heard that term?
Do you know the origin of that term?
Yes, I know the origin of that term.
I can't tell you the exact year, but it's either 19, I imagine it's in the USAID's annual report of 1968, written by Dr. William Dowd, D-A-U-D, he passed away several years ago, and he used
in his report this term, he says something is beginning to happen in increased production of wheat in India and Pakistan.
It may be a green revolution or words to this effect.
And you can find this either in the USAID report
for I would suspect it's 67 or 68 or 69.
My belief is it'll be 68.
That's where the term was first used.
What did you think of the term then and now?
Well I was never too happy about the situation because it soon became so all-inclusive that everyone got
false hopes that suddenly there was no problem on food.
The general press, of course, this was never Dowd's intention, nor certainly any of ours, because it's producing food for
4 billion people, or it's today 4.9.
There's no easy situation, especially when our population continues to increase at 84 million more each year.
But beyond that, the really only sizable change, big change in production, yield-wise and production-wise, on basic crops has been
wheat and rice corn hasn't moved like it should and it's the one that sorghum and corn in Africa has to do what happened on wheat and rice in Asia in the last two decades this has to happen it can be made to happen but it can't be made to happen by writing more learned reports there's altogether too much
stuff being written on a theoretical basis from air-conditioned offices in the US and Europe which is where most of our best critics sit that has no relevance to what goes on out there in the field.
Okay let's talk about some of the critics.
I've become somewhat familiar with a lot of the criticisms and I'd just like you to answer
answer these.
Some of these you have answered already, but I'd like to get it on tape.
Now, one of the critics stated that Dr. William Paddock, I'm sure you're probably familiar with his family in 1975, America's decision, who will be survived, has leveled the criticism that the Green Revolution resulted from better winter conditions in the late 1960s.
This was precisely why I made the decision that we were going to apply in those demonstrations on farms 120 kilos of nitrogen, 120 pounds per acre, rather than 40 to take the wind out of such a statement because no one had ever seen 80 bushel wheat before.
When you go from 10 to 80 or 85 bushels an acre,
It wasn't the weather.
Maybe it didn't convince him, but those hundreds of thousands or millions of simple farmers, they knew something was happening, even though it didn't echo back into Bill Paddock's office in Washington, D.C.
We had many of those kinds of critics.
Okay.
okay and over time of course the weather conditions probably changed considerably didn't they sure and how did crops do they continue in 1979 was reputed to have been the driest year in 70 some years during that year in India rice production and wheat production both
fell but they were carrying in warehouse 20 million tons we didn't hear any about famine they came through the next year with production was up again not only to the level of the year before but another couple million tons and last year it was compared to the five-year average of 60 to 66
65, which was just under 11 million tons, just under 400 million bushels.
Last harvest of 84 was 45.1 million metric tons, that's about 1,650,000,000 bushels, more than 4-4.
Again, they've got a large reserve of wheat,
rice in their warehouses something in the order of 22 23 million tons this past winter has been extremely dry again but they're in good shape the the data are not in yet on the yield but it will probably be down a million or two tons but compared to where it was sure sure yeah he also criticized you by saying that Borlaug's grains are a lower nutritional value than the earlier ones
This is just a bunch of nonsense.
There's a grain of truth in this.
Whenever you have, and this is what makes it very difficult to cut off all of these statements.
For example, this was a charge that the wheats were moving in, displacing grain legumes and pulses.
For example, chickpea and lentil and the other legumes.
And you see, this brings back this point we talked about earlier in the high lysine corn.
When you eat cereals and then, whether it's chickpea or lentil or false peas, any of those, they tend to balance each other
the lysine's essential amino acids in the grain legumes will compensate for the low essential amino acids in the cereals and vice versa.
And so you balance your diet this way.
That's been going on since the early times of agriculture.
How they hit on this, we don't know.
Okay, so the cliche that gave rise to this was that
Wheat was moving in, the acreage of pulses was going down.
The total area planted to those winter, because they couldn't compete.
And so they immediately said that the nutritional levels had to be going down.
Dr. Ryan at ECRISAT, the other center for dry land tropics in